me about your project

Next Base CRM

Right now I am working for NextBase as a Software Development Engineer in Test. It has been 3 years I am in this position. There are several projects under the company, and the application I work is NextBase CRM - Customer Relationship Management. It is a web based application for customers to organize the collaboration between team members, as well as to manage the documentation flow, reporting and task assignments. Moreover, the application has very advance customer service and support capabilities. It is an internal application, where different users with different roles and permissions can create end to end work-flows, which has been unique experience for me to test. Also the application enables users to share files, create calendar activities and generate reports related to the work-flows. The application has several modules like Tasks, chat and call, work-flows, etc, the one me and my team are working currently is Time and Reports. The module is the combination of Absence, Work time, reports and meetings features. Application utilizes Orcale DB. We use POM Cucumber Framework for automation  testing. My main responsibility is maintaining the framework, regression suite and smoke test as well as in sprint automation testing. 


Vytrack

Right now I am working for Vytrack as automation test engineer. It is already 2 years that I work for them. It is a startup company which has several applications. The application I work is Fleet Management, which is a web based application for customers to handle all kind of management of logistics. Including, but not limited, managing and tracking deliveries of the vehicles as well as renting for the business use. It enables the business user to replacement of the vehicles and tracking all insurance and registration related issues. There are some other features which make the application unique, like Damage and Maintenance Management. I am currently in a team who is responsible for the Fleet Module which is handling contract management and Vehicle information. The application has API-driven engine, which allows users access through a Java API or REST web service and outputs results in XML, JSON or POJO. The Application utilizes Orcale DB. We use POM Cucumber Framework for automation  testing. My main responsibility is maintaining the framework, regression suite and smoke test as well as in sprint automation testing. 

Random

Right now I am working for Rosoka Software as an automation test engineer. It has been already 6 months that I am there. Rosoka is a startup company which has several applications. The application I work is Rosoka Toolkit, which is a development tool for the data scientist. A Data Scientist can modify and create entity types, relationship definitions, lexicons, character-based regex rules, semantic vector regex rules. I specifically work on front end and my module is "languages", which allow the user do modify the library. Rosoka Toolkit also has API-driven engine, which allows users access through a Java API or REST web service and outputs results in XML, JSON or POJO. We use POM Cucumber Framework for automation testing. My main responsibility is maintaining the framework, regression suite and smoke test as well as in sprint automation testing

