NADIR INTERVIEW QUESTIONS DAY 15

1-Let’s start from SDLC. Can you walk me through what does it do and what is that?
2- I am interested in Requirement gathering can you tell me what is happening in Requirement gathering session
3-In design part,  there should be someone from testing team. Why? What they decide there what they do.
4-can you start walk me through from the smallest piece of testing to the higher level of the pyramid?
5-Can you tell me when testers do the integration testing and when developers do the integration testing?
6-Did you have any experience during integration not inside same application but working with downstream and upstream applications, if yes what is downstream and what is upstream application?
7- Can you walk me through you project and team structure?
8-How many team under your project?
9-What is the name of the project
10-Can you walk me through your scrum meetings?
11-in sprint planning meeting you probably going over your team velocity and team capacity so do you remember how many points have you completed in your last sprint as a team?
12-so you guys are doing in sprint automation?
13-can you tell me little bit more about sprint automation, How you decide when you decide which one needs to be automated,  how you guys do it?
14-When you have a user story. Lets say you have a user story with 3 acceptance criteria, how would you approach testing this user story, forgot about automation like manually you need to test the user story with 3 acceptance criteria what is going to be your approach?
15-What do you mean by ready to develop? How you measured that it is ready to develop?
16-Let’s say that it passes DOR(Definition of ready). You have user story with 3 accepting criteria now you need to test. What you going to do?

17-What you going to aim when you write the test scenario even before create the test case?
18-is it possible that you have one scenario that covers 3 acceptance criteria in once? Or would you like to go 1 scenario for each acceptance criteria?
19-Do you think that you will need more than 3 test scenarios?
20-Why you don’t create test case right away, why you need to create scenarios first
21-Do you review your test scenarios with someone else?

JAVA -> 1- Can you create a method which reverse string?
2-How would you test this method?
3-Tell me the expected results
4-What we call this type of testing (White box/unite testing
5-What condition should be met in order to say that, that method is overridden method
6-let’s say in parent class your access modifier is default and in child class when you override that method what can be the access modifier?
7-let’s say that in parent class your access modifier is protected in child class when you override what could be the access modifier?
8-let’s say that your method is static in parent class. In child class we like to override that method. What would be access modifier, return type, name and parameters

JAVA -> 2- I want you to write a method which accept string list and return it as a string